Live metrics docs (#4012)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/studio/user-guide/projects-and-experiments/run-experiments.md

![](https://static.iterative.ai/img/studio/cml_commit.png)

> ## What happens after you submit a new experiment

Reviewer: Can we use a more descriptive title and maybe add some text and/or list with links to the sections below as a summary? (following existing Studio docs style). Rough idea:

```suggestion
## Follow the experiment results

- [Git commit and PRs]
- [Model training]
- [Live metrics and plots]
```

Author: Changed. PTAL.

Reviewer: Still seeing the same title?

Author: Yes, I didn't change the title as suggested. But I changed the content as per this feedback: `add some text and/or list with links to the sections below as a summary? (following existing Studio docs style).`

### Git commit (and pull request) are created

The new experiment appears in the project's experiment table. If you had
specified a new branch to commit the changes to, then a new pull request will

> also have been created from the new branch to the base branch.

Reviewer: So is an experiment created? Is a commit created? This may be confusing. I don't think we should call experiments commits until they are "made persistent" (but we should probably also avoid that term).

> Also the grammatical number is unclear i.e. is it "Git commit (or PR) is" -or- "Git commit(s) and PR(s) are" ?

Author: It's 1 Git commit and 0 or 1 PR. Not sure what's the best way to say this.

Reviewer: OK, the grammatical number is correct then (sounds a bit strange but it's a very minor observation, moving on...)

I see the text is clarified. Thanks, resolving.

![](https://static.iterative.ai/img/studio/cml_commit.png)

## What happens after you submit a new experiment

Iterative Studio will
[create the Git commit and pull request](#git-commit-and-pull-request-are-created).
This will [invoke your model training process](#model-training-is-invoked) (if
it is set up). You can
[track the results in real-time](#live-metrics-and-plots-are-tracked). And you
can [save the results in Git](#metrics-plots-and-reports-are-saved-in-git).

### Git commit (and pull request) are created

Iterative Studio will create a Git commit with the changes you submitted. This
commit appears in the project's experiment table. If you had specified a new

> branch to commit the changes to, then a new pull request will also have been
> created from the new branch to the base branch.

Reviewer: 💅🏼 
```suggestion
branch to commit the changes to, then a new pull request will also be created
from the new branch to the base branch.
```

### Model training is invoked

If your ML project is integrated with a CI/CD setup (e.g. GitHub Actions), the
CI/CD setup will get invoked. If this setup includes a model training process,
it will be triggered, which means that your ML experiment will run
automatically.

The model training can happen on any cloud or Kubernetes. For more details on
how to set up
[CI/CD pipelines for your ML project](/doc/use-cases/ci-cd-for-machine-learning),
refer to [CML].

### Live metrics and plots are tracked

In your model training CI action, you can use [DVCLive] to send live updates to
metrics and plots back to Iterative Studio, without writing them to your Git

> repository. The live metrics are displayed alongside the corresponding

Reviewer: Sorry, I think I asked this before but I forgot the answer (which probably means it's confusing and not sufficiently documented): Where are the metrics stored if not written somewhere in the Git repo? Thanks

> In your model training CI action, you can use [DVCLive] to send live updates to
> metrics and plots back to Iterative Studio, without writing them to your Git
> repository. The live metrics are displayed alongside the corresponding
> experiment commits. For more details, refer to the
> [next section](/doc/studio/user-guide/projects-and-experiments/live-metrics-and-plots).

Reviewer: It's best (shorter, easier to read, evident) to link in-line than create sentences specifically to link. Minor, but this is what I mean:

```suggestion
In your model training CI action, you can use [DVCLive] to [send live updates to
metrics and plots] back to Iterative Studio, without writing them to your Git
repository. The live metrics are displayed alongside the corresponding
experiment commits.

[send live updates to metrics and plots]:
  /doc/studio/user-guide/projects-and-experiments/live-metrics-and-plots
```

### Metrics, plots and reports are saved in Git

In your model training CI action, you can save the training results in Git. This
means, once the experiment completes, its metrics will be available in the
project's experiment table. You can then generate plots and trend charts for it,
or compare it with the other experiments.

In your model training CI action, you can also use [CML] to create reports with
metrics, plots or other details. You can access the CML report by clicking on
the `CML report` icon next to the Git commit message in the experiment table.
The `CML Report` tooltip appears over the `CML report` icon on mouse hover.

![](https://static.iterative.ai/img/studio/cml_report_icon.png)

[dvclive]: /doc/dvclive

> [cml]: (https://cml.dev)

Reviewer: Fix broken link
```suggestion
[cml]: https://cml.dev
```

![](https://static.iterative.ai/img/studio/cml_commit.png)

## What happens after you submit a new experiment

Iterative Studio will

> [create the Git commit and pull request](#git-commit-and-pull-request-are-created).

Reviewer: This is still somewhat confusing. We're submitting an experiment but a regular Git commit is created?

Author: Yes. The experiment you submit from Studio is not a `dvc exp` experiment. It's a Git commit. We've called it experiment from the beginning, because we expect you to have configured a CI job for model training. We could consider renaming it, but it'll impact many pages in the docs. So, it should become a different issue/PR.

This will [invoke your model training process](#model-training-is-invoked) (if
it is set up). You can
[track the results in real-time](#live-metrics-and-plots-are-tracked). And you
can [save the results in Git](#metrics-plots-and-reports-are-saved-in-git).

### Git commit (and pull request) are created

Iterative Studio will create a Git commit with the changes you submitted. This

> commit appears in the project's experiment table. If you had specified a new

Reviewer: (Same issue:) A regular commit appears as an experiment?

Reviewer: p.s. I guess it's related to calling all these things "rows" both in the UI and docs. If that update is planned, we can wait for the core update to clarify all these texts.

Author: yes

branch to commit the changes to, then a new pull request will also be created
from the new branch to the base branch.

### Model training is invoked

If your ML project is integrated with a CI/CD setup (e.g. GitHub Actions), the
CI/CD setup will get invoked. If this setup includes a model training process,
it will be triggered, which means that your ML experiment will run
automatically.

The model training can happen on any cloud or Kubernetes. For more details on
how to set up
[CI/CD pipelines for your ML project](/doc/use-cases/ci-cd-for-machine-learning),
refer to [CML].

### Live metrics and plots are tracked

In your model training CI action, you can use [DVCLive] to [send live updates to
metrics and plots] back to Iterative Studio, without writing them to your Git
repository. The live metrics are displayed alongside the corresponding

> experiment commits.

Reviewer: "experiment rows" 🙂

Author: 👍
